well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so today is part two of how to
change the world by building community
based networks that will make you more
independent if you haven't watched that
first video go back and watch it because
you kind of need that to understand what
we're talking about otherwise this gonna
sound really weird especially in the
beginning a lot of the comments on
Facebook were concerned about the
limitations of these types of networks
the reason I first became interested in
them and started really thinking about
them was because if something called
stay behind organizations during the
Cold War
NATO created these little networks all
over Europe and their job as the name
suggests was to stay behind in the event
of a Soviet invasion what they did was
they put people at railroad yards
hospitals police stations city calls all
kinds of different places and they
figured they needed to do it beforehand
because they learned during World War
two that if you waited until after the
invasion the foreign intelligence
service would be looking for new people
in these places so they had to get in
place before Hank
a lot of these guys were military some
of them some of them were intelligence
and but a whole lot of them were
civilians and I want you to think about
what NATO believed they could accomplish
they thought they could basically from
in a revolution from inside the country
and they could run resistance operations
that entails a lot that tells a whole
lot you're talking about treating the
wounded gathering intelligence running
arms maybe engaging the military
operations sabotage all kinds of stuff
all of which carries an amazing amount
of logistics behind it if you actually
want to accomplish it NATO was convinced
that these little networks could do it
and they're set up the same way it's a
group of people come together for a
cause they accomplish it and then they
go on about their lives
now if you know anything about stay
behind organizations you're probably
going you got to talk about Gladio bow
yeah okay so there was one of these call
Gladio that went off the rails they got
way out of hand even without an invasion
they carried out assassinations all
kinds of stuff not the best example but
that was one of like 50 of these things
and the thing is though if you take away
the horror of this situation shows you
exactly how effective they are and what
they can't accomplish the logistics
behind some of the stuff that they
carried out was amazing again I'm not
saying that what they did was good I'm
just saying that it proved the theory so
are there limitations sure but they're
determined by the people in the network
anything is possible if you wish hard
enough at least that's what Peter Pan
said so how do you go about starting one
of these things for purposes other than
you know resisting an invasion we have
to start off with a real self evaluation
what do you have to offer and what do
the people in your immediate circle have
to offer that you can kind of use to
begin because that's how it has to start
has to start with you offering to do
stuff and then in the hopes of it being
reciprocated and when you're doing that
you got to be real honest with yourself
okay yeah you you built a birdhouse but
are you really a carpenter you know that
type of thing and then you have to get
over your own hang-ups and we see a lot
of that in the comments and we're going
to talk about the three main ones
everybody has something to offer a
network like this everyone every single
person
there was a comment on Facebook from
somebody that had a medical issue and
that's and the the overriding theme of
it was something that comes from older
people a lot and it's basically you know
at this point in my life I'm broke I am
broken I can't go out and do anything I
pretty much stay at home okay but you've
got decades of life experience you have
decades of experience at something and
that expertise is valuable sometimes
it's not actually going out and swinging
a hammer it's providing the advice to
make that easier don't sell yourself
short
you know most cultures actually look
upon older people as wise because well
you are and then there was a comment
from a younger guy once a is 17 16 17
something like that he's like man I want
to do this but can I do it at my age
absolutely absolutely you can't in fact
the story in the last video about the
guy with the chainsaw coming out
I met him as a teenager we worked at a
fast-food joint together we just
happened to you know we went on about
our lives and traveled similar paths and
we kept running into each other and as
fate would have it you know here we are
20 years later and he lives up 45
minutes away and so you can definitely
start it now you can definitely start it
now and the thing is even though you
don't have any skills to offer it may
seem that way Masek my kid I don't I
don't have anything to offer oh yeah you
do another guy in my networks named
Keith and somebody else I had met as a
teenager
this spring his 17-year old boy is going
to come out and help me put a fence
around the property he doesn't know how
to put up a fence but he will by the
time we're gone
see at your age you have a lot of energy
and that's very helpful to people my age
and it's very helpful to you because if
you were to start this now and were to
use social media to help link up with
other people in your community that
needs something you can learn so much
you get a free education you can gather
this wide array of skills just by saying
yeah I'll help you do that you know he's
going to come out here and have no idea
how to do this and by the time we're
done because it is a it's it's an ordeal
he's gonna know how to do it he's gonna
have that skill master
so even beyond the fact that he's kind
of you know putting his chips into this
little network of ours
he's getting something out of it right
away knowledge he's learning and that's
that's that's extremely empowering
especially when you're talking about
becoming more independent so yes you can
do this when you're dealing with people
that you're meeting on social media I
don't have to tell you but I'm going to
make sure you check them out be safe the
other group of people that have a
concern is introverts you know this is
easy if you're a social butterfly not so
much if you're an introvert yeah but if
you're an introvert you probably have a
job that allows you to be alone most
topics which means you probably have
skills that other people don't have I'm
gonna gasp I mean you use social media
okay so you can network that way at
least in the beginning
build a digital community very similar
and maybe you can provide Computer
Services or whatever it is that you do
via that method so you don't have to
actually meet these people and then as
time goes on and you interact with them
online you may actually end up meeting
them just an idea to get it out there
everybody though
everybody has something to offer a
network like this that there are no
exceptions to act everybody so how do
you recruit people to join your network
well obviously you start off with your
immediate circle that's where it begins
and that could be your friends your
co-workers people from school maybe
you're in a club that focuses on some
hobby and you can expand it beyond that
you can look on social media you know
there's a lot of local based Facebook
groups and you could look in those then
I mean another good place to find people
that would be interested in this is
activist communities those people look
for the helpers you know those people
that are out there already doing it
getting nothing in return most times
those people are definitely going to be
interested in something like this and if
you just can't for whatever reason apply
any of that you can look into something
called time banks now people on Facebook
are already familiar with this because
that link showed up over and over and
over again time makes do have some
limitations there mainly in larger
cities and it doesn't always translate
into actual network building but it gets
you out there and eventually you can
find the people to build those networks
it's kind of like I said it's kind of
like a Craigslist for this type of thing
the other thing you have to decide is
the structure how are you going to
structure your organization I know a
group of Army guys and what they do is
they've got poker chips with their names
on them
and when you know what somebody comes
and does a favor for you Egham a poker
chip and later on they've got that poker
chip with your name on it and that's
kind of how their system works
storm coming and branches falling so
there's no formal agreement there's no
money changing hands or anything like
that but there's a marker and that's one
way to do it is to engage in some kind
of barter system that that's there the
other way to do it is send it up kind of
on a more social life where everybody's
involved and everybody just makes a
commitment to help if they can rule 303
if you have the means at hand you have
the responsibility that type of thing
and then you can go further than that
you can turn it into monthly meetings
you can engage in community service in
your community that helps get the word
out about your network and kind of shows
that you're a group of people worthy of
being around there there there was a
group set up I think it was I think it
was set up by a guy named Rick I get
asked to participate in a lot of
activist groups I normally don't for a
whole bunch of reasons but you know I
help as I can but I don't ever join a
group one of these groups the first two
guys I met from it they really impressed
me so I was like well I'll go check them
out and it's like okay so where do I go
how do I find out you know how do I meet
up with you guys and they're like well
on you know Thursday we're feeding the
homeless here on Saturday or gonna be
doing this on Sunday this next Tuesday
this and it just it was a list rather
than just saying oh well we have a
monthly meeting on the 27th what that
told me was that these people were
active
and it wasn't hey come to this monthly
meeting and we're gonna talk it's like
hey show up and help yeah that's I like
to that and when you're creating
something like this those are the kind
of people you want to attract you want
to attract people that are or last about
talking more about actually getting
something done and that's one way to
demonstrate that that's who you are and
that's how you're going to attract them
normally people that are busy that are
active they're gonna be more likely to
come out if it's something they're
certain isn't going to be a waste of
their time so if if there's already a
goal that they they can get behind like
feeding the homeless they're gonna be
more likely to come than going to have
coffee so those are the basics of how to
set one up now if you have any questions
ask and the cool thing is in the comment
section there's other people answering
the questions that's that's fantastic
this little series is gonna continue
because not just can these little
organizations and these little networks
help you with the everyday things it can
be translated into things much larger
than that you know these things yeah
there is that barter system and play
them network of favors that can exist
but it can also help you become more
financially independent by kind of
backing each other up and we're going to
talk about that in the next video
because there is most of the people who
are interested in this type of things
are of a limited means because they see
the the need for it and we're gonna try
to talk about some ways to maybe help
increase your means and I'm not talking
about don't go to Starbucks and save the
five dollars and talk about things that
might actually help
so anyway is just a fault y'all have a
good night